README.md, before:

<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE MANUALLY -->
<!-- Please read https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md -->
[![linuxserver.io](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linuxserver/docker-templates/master/linuxserver.io/img/linuxserver_medium.png)](https://linuxserver.io)

[![Blog](https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=linuxserver.io&message=Blog)](https://blog.linuxserver.io "all the things you can do with our containers including How-To guides, opinions and much more!")
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/354974912613449730.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=Discord&logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/YWrKVTn "realtime support / chat with the community and the team.")
[![Discourse](https://img.shields.io/discourse/https/discourse.linuxserver.io/topics.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&logo=discourse)](https://discourse.linuxserver.io "post on our community forum.")
[![Fleet](https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=linuxserver.io&message=Fleet)](https://fleet.linuxserver.io "an online web interface which displays all of our maintained images.")
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=linuxserver.io&message=GitHub&logo=github)](https://github.com/linuxserver "view the source for all of our repositories.")
[![Open Collective](https://img.shields.io/opencollective/all/linuxserver.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=Supporters&logo=open%20collective)](https://opencollective.com/linuxserver "please consider helping us by either donating or contributing to our budget")

The [LinuxServer.io](https://linuxserver.io) team brings you another container release featuring:

* regular and timely application updates
* easy user mappings (PGID, PUID)
* custom base image with s6 overlay
* weekly base OS updates with common layers across the entire LinuxServer.io ecosystem to minimise space usage, down time and bandwidth
* regular security updates

Find us at:

* [Blog](https://blog.linuxserver.io) - all the things you can do with our containers including How-To guides, opinions and much more!
* [Discord](https://discord.gg/YWrKVTn) - realtime support / chat with the community and the team.
* [Discourse](https://discourse.linuxserver.io) - post on our community forum.
* [Fleet](https://fleet.linuxserver.io) - an online web interface which displays all of our maintained images.
* [GitHub](https://github.com/linuxserver) - view the source for all of our repositories.
* [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/linuxserver) - please consider helping us by either donating or contributing to our budget

# DEPRECATION NOTICE 
This image is deprecated. We will not offer support for this image and it will not be updated.


# [linuxserver/quassel-core](https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core)

[![Scarf.io pulls](https://scarf.sh/installs-badge/linuxserver-ci/linuxserver%2Fquassel-core?color=94398d&label-color=555555&logo-color=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&package-type=docker)](https://scarf.sh)
[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core)
[![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core/releases)
[![GitHub Package Repository](https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=linuxserver.io&message=GitHub%20Package&logo=github)](https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core/packages)
[![GitLab Container Registry](https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=linuxserver.io&message=GitLab%20Registry&logo=gitlab)](https://gitlab.com/linuxserver.io/docker-quassel-core/container_registry)
[![Quay.io](https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=linuxserver.io&message=Quay.io)](https://quay.io/repository/linuxserver.io/quassel-core)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/linuxserver/quassel-core.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=pulls&logo=docker)](https://hub.docker.com/r/linuxserver/quassel-core)
[![Docker Stars](https://img.shields.io/docker/stars/linuxserver/quassel-core.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=stars&logo=docker)](https://hub.docker.com/r/linuxserver/quassel-core)
[![Jenkins Build](https://img.shields.io/jenkins/build?labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&jobUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fci.linuxserver.io%2Fjob%2FDocker-Pipeline-Builders%2Fjob%2Fdocker-quassel-core%2Fjob%2Fmaster%2F&logo=jenkins)](https://ci.linuxserver.io/job/Docker-Pipeline-Builders/job/docker-quassel-core/job/master/)
[![LSIO CI](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/yaml?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=CI&query=CI&url=https%3A%2F%2Fci-tests.linuxserver.io%2Flinuxserver%2Fquassel-core%2Flatest%2Fci-status.yml)](https://ci-tests.linuxserver.io/linuxserver/quassel-core/latest/index.html)

[Quassel-core](http://quassel-irc.org/) is a modern, cross-platform, distributed IRC client, meaning that one (or multiple) client(s) can attach to and detach from a central core.

This container handles the IRC connection (quasselcore) and requires a desktop client (quasselclient) to be used and configured. It is designed to be always on and will keep your identity present in IRC even when your clients cannot be online. Backlog (history) is downloaded by your client upon reconnection allowing infinite scrollback through time.

[![quassel-core](http://icons.iconarchive.com/icons/oxygen-icons.org/oxygen/256/Apps-quassel-icon.png)](http://quassel-irc.org/)

## Supported Architectures

We utilise the docker manifest for multi-platform awareness. More information is available from docker [here](https://distribution.github.io/distribution/spec/manifest-v2-2/#manifest-list) and our announcement [here](https://blog.linuxserver.io/2019/02/21/the-lsio-pipeline-project/).

Simply pulling `lscr.io/linuxserver/quassel-core:latest` should retrieve the correct image for your arch, but you can also pull specific arch images via tags.

The architectures supported by this image are:

| Architecture | Available | Tag |
| :----: | :----: | ---- |
| x86-64 | ✅ | amd64-\<version tag\> |
| arm64 | ✅ | arm64v8-\<version tag\> |
| armhf | ❌ | |

## Application Setup

Quassel wiki: [quassel](http://bugs.quassel-irc.org/projects/quassel-irc/wiki)

A great place to host a quassel instance is a VPS, such as [DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/?refcode=501c48b34b8c). For $5 a month you can have a 24/7 IRC connection and be up and running in under 55 seconds (or so they claim).

Once you have the container running, fire up a quassel desktop client and connect to your new core instance using your droplets public IP address and the port you specified in your `docker run` command *default: 4242*. Create an admin user, select SQLite as your storage backend (Quassel limitation). Setup your real name and nick, then press `Save & Connect`.

You're now connected to IRC. Let's add you to our [IRC](http://www.linuxserver.io/index.php/irc/) `#linuxserver.io` room on Freenode. Click 'File' > 'Networks' > 'Configure Networks' > 'Add' (under Networks section, not Servers) > 'Use preset' > Select 'Freenode' and then configure your identity using the tabs in the 'Network details' section. Once connected to Freenode, click `#join` and enter `#linuxserver.io`. That's it, you're done.

## Stateless usage

To use Quassel in stateless mode, where it needs to be configured through
environment arguments, run it with the `--config-from-environment` RUN_OPTS environment setting.

| Env | Usage |
| :----: | --- |
| DB_BACKEND | `SQLite` or `PostgreSQL` |
| DB_PGSQL_USERNAME | PostgreSQL User |
| DB_PGSQL_PASSWORD | PostgreSQL Password |
| DB_PGSQL_HOSTNAME | PostgreSQL Host |
| DB_PGSQL_PORT | PostgreSQL Port |
| AUTH_AUTHENTICATOR | `Database` or `LDAP` |
| AUTH_LDAP_HOSTNAME | LDAP Host |
| AUTH_LDAP_PORT | LDAP Port |
| AUTH_LDAP_BIND_DN | LDAP Bind Domain |
| AUTH_LDAP_BIND_PASSWORD | LDAP Password |
| AUTH_LDAP_FILTER | LDAP Authentication Filters |
| AUTH_LDAP_UID_ATTRIBUTE | LDAP UID |

Additionally you have RUN_OPTS that can be used to customize pathing and behavior.

| Option | Example |
| :----: | --- |
| --strict-ident | strictly bool `--strict-ident` |
| --ident-daemon | strictly bool `--ident-daemon` |
| --ident-port | `--ident-port "10113"` |
| --ident-listen | `--ident-listen "::,0.0.0.0"` |
| --ssl-cert | `--ssl-cert /config/keys/cert.crt` |
| --ssl-key | `--ssl-key /config/keys/cert.key` |
| --require-ssl | strictly bool `--require-ssl` |

Minimal example with SQLite:

```
docker create \
  --name=quassel-core \
  -e PUID=1000 \
  -e PGID=1000 \
  -e TZ=Europe/London \
  -e RUN_OPTS='--config-from-environment' \
  -e DB_BACKEND=SQLite \
  -e AUTH_AUTHENTICATOR=Database \
  -p 4242:4242 \
  -v <path to data>:/config \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  linuxserver/quassel-core
```

## Usage

To help you get started creating a container from this image you can either use docker-compose or the docker cli.

>[!NOTE]
>Unless a parameter is flaged as 'optional', it is *mandatory* and a value must be provided.

### docker-compose (recommended, [click here for more info](https://docs.linuxserver.io/general/docker-compose))

```yaml
---
services:
  quassel-core:
    image: lscr.io/linuxserver/quassel-core:latest
    container_name: quassel-core
    environment:
      - PUID=1000
      - PGID=1000
      - TZ=Etc/UTC
      - RUN_OPTS=--config-from-environment #optional
    volumes:
      - /path/to/quassel-core/data:/config
    ports:
      - 4242:4242
      - 113:10113 #optional
    restart: unless-stopped
```

### docker cli ([click here for more info](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/cli/))

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name=quassel-core \
  -e PUID=1000 \
  -e PGID=1000 \
  -e TZ=Etc/UTC \
  -e RUN_OPTS=--config-from-environment `#optional` \
  -p 4242:4242 \
  -p 113:10113 `#optional` \
  -v /path/to/quassel-core/data:/config \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  lscr.io/linuxserver/quassel-core:latest
```

## Parameters

Containers are configured using parameters passed at runtime (such as those above). These parameters are separated by a colon and indicate `<external>:<internal>` respectively. For example, `-p 8080:80` would expose port `80` from inside the container to be accessible from the host's IP on port `8080` outside the container.

| Parameter | Function |
| :----: | --- |
| `-p 4242:4242` | The port quassel-core listens for connections on. |
| `-p 10113` | Optional Ident Port |
| `-e PUID=1000` | for UserID - see below for explanation |
| `-e PGID=1000` | for GroupID - see below for explanation |
| `-e TZ=Etc/UTC` | specify a timezone to use, see this [list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones#List). |
| `-e RUN_OPTS=--config-from-environment` | Custom CLI options for Quassel |
| `-v /config` | Database and quassel-core configuration storage. |

## Environment variables from files (Docker secrets)

You can set any environment variable from a file by using a special prepend `FILE__`.

As an example:

```bash
-e FILE__MYVAR=/run/secrets/mysecretvariable
```

Will set the environment variable `MYVAR` based on the contents of the `/run/secrets/mysecretvariable` file.

## Umask for running applications

For all of our images we provide the ability to override the default umask settings for services started within the containers using the optional `-e UMASK=022` setting.
Keep in mind umask is not chmod it subtracts from permissions based on it's value it does not add. Please read up [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Umask) before asking for support.

## User / Group Identifiers

When using volumes (`-v` flags), permissions issues can arise between the host OS and the container, we avoid this issue by allowing you to specify the user `PUID` and group `PGID`.

Ensure any volume directories on the host are owned by the same user you specify and any permissions issues will vanish like magic.

In this instance `PUID=1000` and `PGID=1000`, to find yours use `id your_user` as below:

```bash
id your_user
```

Example output:

```text
uid=1000(your_user) gid=1000(your_user) groups=1000(your_user)
```

## Docker Mods

[![Docker Mods](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/yaml?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=quassel-core&query=%24.mods%5B%27quassel-core%27%5D.mod_count&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Flinuxserver%2Fdocker-mods%2Fmaster%2Fmod-list.yml)](https://mods.linuxserver.io/?mod=quassel-core "view available mods for this container.") [![Docker Universal Mods](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/yaml?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=universal&query=%24.mods%5B%27universal%27%5D.mod_count&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Flinuxserver%2Fdocker-mods%2Fmaster%2Fmod-list.yml)](https://mods.linuxserver.io/?mod=universal "view available universal mods.")

We publish various [Docker Mods](https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-mods) to enable additional functionality within the containers. The list of Mods available for this image (if any) as well as universal mods that can be applied to any one of our images can be accessed via the dynamic badges above.

## Support Info

* Shell access whilst the container is running:

    ```bash
    docker exec -it quassel-core /bin/bash
    ```

* To monitor the logs of the container in realtime:

    ```bash
    docker logs -f quassel-core
    ```

* Container version number:

    ```bash
    docker inspect -f '{{ index .Config.Labels "build_version" }}' quassel-core
    ```

* Image version number:

    ```bash
    docker inspect -f '{{ index .Config.Labels "build_version" }}' lscr.io/linuxserver/quassel-core:latest
    ```

## Updating Info

Most of our images are static, versioned, and require an image update and container recreation to update the app inside. With some exceptions (noted in the relevant readme.md), we do not recommend or support updating apps inside the container. Please consult the [Application Setup](#application-setup) section above to see if it is recommended for the image.

Below are the instructions for updating containers:

### Via Docker Compose

* Update images:
    * All images:

        ```bash
        docker-compose pull
        ```

    * Single image:

        ```bash
        docker-compose pull quassel-core
        ```

* Update containers:
    * All containers:

        ```bash
        docker-compose up -d
        ```

    * Single container:

        ```bash
        docker-compose up -d quassel-core
        ```

* You can also remove the old dangling images:

    ```bash
    docker image prune
    ```

### Via Docker Run

* Update the image:

    ```bash
    docker pull lscr.io/linuxserver/quassel-core:latest
    ```

* Stop the running container:

    ```bash
    docker stop quassel-core
    ```

* Delete the container:

    ```bash
    docker rm quassel-core
    ```

* Recreate a new container with the same docker run parameters as instructed above (if mapped correctly to a host folder, your `/config` folder and settings will be preserved)
* You can also remove the old dangling images:

    ```bash
    docker image prune
    ```

### Image Update Notifications - Diun (Docker Image Update Notifier)

>[!TIP]
>We recommend [Diun](https://crazymax.dev/diun/) for update notifications. Other tools that automatically update containers unattended are not recommended or supported.

## Building locally

If you want to make local modifications to these images for development purposes or just to customize the logic:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core.git
cd docker-quassel-core
docker build \
  --no-cache \
  --pull \
  -t lscr.io/linuxserver/quassel-core:latest .
```

The ARM variants can be built on x86_64 hardware and vice versa using `lscr.io/linuxserver/qemu-static`

```bash
docker run --rm --privileged lscr.io/linuxserver/qemu-static --reset
```

Once registered you can define the dockerfile to use with `-f Dockerfile.aarch64`.

## Versions

* **26.12.24:** - Deprecate.
* **26.08.23:** - Rebase to Alpine 3.20.
* **10.11.23:** - Rebase to Alpine 3.18.
* **03.07.23:** - Deprecate armhf. As announced [here](https://www.linuxserver.io/blog/a-farewell-to-arm-hf)
* **13.02.23:** - Rebase to Alpine 3.17, migrate to s6v3.
* **03.01.22:** - Rebase to alpine 3.15. Add new build deps and apply other fixes for 0.14.
* **07.08.21:** - Fixing incorrect database password variable operator.
* **19.12.19:** - Rebasing to alpine 3.11.
* **28.06.19:** - Rebasing to alpine 3.10.
* **23.03.19:** - Switching to new Base images, shift to arm32v7 tag.
* **20.03.19:** - Make stateless operation an option, with input from one of the quassel team.
* **26.01.19:** - Add pipeline logic and multi arch.
* **08.01.19:** - Rebase to Ubuntu Bionic and upgrade to Quassel`0.13.0` See [here.](https://quassel-irc.org/node/134).
* **30.07.18:** - Rebase to alpine:3.8 and use buildstage.
* **03.01.18:** - Deprecate cpu_core routine lack of scaling.
* **09.12.17:** - Rebase to alpine:3.7.
* **26.11.17:** - Use cpu core counting routine to speed up build time.
* **12.07.17:** - Add inspect commands to README, move to jenkins build and push.
* **27.05.17:** - Rebase to alpine:3.6.
* **13.05.17:** - Switch to git source.
* **28.12.16:** - Rebase to alpine:3.5.
* **23.11.16:** - Rebase to alpine:edge.
* **23.09.16:** - Use QT5 dependencies (thanks bauerj).
* **10.09.16:** - Add layer badges to README.
* **28.08.16:** - Add badges to README.
* **10.08.16:** - Rebase to xenial.
* **14.10.15:** - Removed the webui, turned out to be to unstable for most usecases.
* **01.09.15:** - Fixed mistake in README.
* **30.07.15:** - Switched to internal baseimage, and fixed a bug with updating the webinterface.
* **06.07.15:** - Enabled BLOWFISH encryption and added a (optional) webinterface, for the times you dont have access to your client.

Commit message:

Update readme to indicate a non-official fork.
Signed-off-by: Richard Freeman <rich0@gentoo.org>

README.md, after:

I am not affiliated with Linuxserver.io, and this is not an official image from them.  Do not bother them for support.  I forked this to maintain this for personal use, but am preserving their documentation below.


<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE MANUALLY -->
<!-- Please read https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md -->
[![linuxserver.io](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/linuxserver/docker-templates/master/linuxserver.io/img/linuxserver_medium.png)](https://linuxserver.io)

[![Blog](https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=linuxserver.io&message=Blog)](https://blog.linuxserver.io "all the things you can do with our containers including How-To guides, opinions and much more!")
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/354974912613449730.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=Discord&logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/YWrKVTn "realtime support / chat with the community and the team.")
[![Discourse](https://img.shields.io/discourse/https/discourse.linuxserver.io/topics.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&logo=discourse)](https://discourse.linuxserver.io "post on our community forum.")
[![Fleet](https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=linuxserver.io&message=Fleet)](https://fleet.linuxserver.io "an online web interface which displays all of our maintained images.")
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=linuxserver.io&message=GitHub&logo=github)](https://github.com/linuxserver "view the source for all of our repositories.")
[![Open Collective](https://img.shields.io/opencollective/all/linuxserver.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=Supporters&logo=open%20collective)](https://opencollective.com/linuxserver "please consider helping us by either donating or contributing to our budget")

The [LinuxServer.io](https://linuxserver.io) team brings you another container release featuring:

* regular and timely application updates
* easy user mappings (PGID, PUID)
* custom base image with s6 overlay
* weekly base OS updates with common layers across the entire LinuxServer.io ecosystem to minimise space usage, down time and bandwidth
* regular security updates

Find us at:

* [Blog](https://blog.linuxserver.io) - all the things you can do with our containers including How-To guides, opinions and much more!
* [Discord](https://discord.gg/YWrKVTn) - realtime support / chat with the community and the team.
* [Discourse](https://discourse.linuxserver.io) - post on our community forum.
* [Fleet](https://fleet.linuxserver.io) - an online web interface which displays all of our maintained images.
* [GitHub](https://github.com/linuxserver) - view the source for all of our repositories.
* [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/linuxserver) - please consider helping us by either donating or contributing to our budget

# DEPRECATION NOTICE 
This image is deprecated. We will not offer support for this image and it will not be updated.


# [linuxserver/quassel-core](https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core)

[![Scarf.io pulls](https://scarf.sh/installs-badge/linuxserver-ci/linuxserver%2Fquassel-core?color=94398d&label-color=555555&logo-color=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&package-type=docker)](https://scarf.sh)
[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core)
[![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core/releases)
[![GitHub Package Repository](https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=linuxserver.io&message=GitHub%20Package&logo=github)](https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core/packages)
[![GitLab Container Registry](https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=linuxserver.io&message=GitLab%20Registry&logo=gitlab)](https://gitlab.com/linuxserver.io/docker-quassel-core/container_registry)
[![Quay.io](https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=linuxserver.io&message=Quay.io)](https://quay.io/repository/linuxserver.io/quassel-core)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/linuxserver/quassel-core.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=pulls&logo=docker)](https://hub.docker.com/r/linuxserver/quassel-core)
[![Docker Stars](https://img.shields.io/docker/stars/linuxserver/quassel-core.svg?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=stars&logo=docker)](https://hub.docker.com/r/linuxserver/quassel-core)
[![Jenkins Build](https://img.shields.io/jenkins/build?labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&jobUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fci.linuxserver.io%2Fjob%2FDocker-Pipeline-Builders%2Fjob%2Fdocker-quassel-core%2Fjob%2Fmaster%2F&logo=jenkins)](https://ci.linuxserver.io/job/Docker-Pipeline-Builders/job/docker-quassel-core/job/master/)
[![LSIO CI](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/yaml?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=CI&query=CI&url=https%3A%2F%2Fci-tests.linuxserver.io%2Flinuxserver%2Fquassel-core%2Flatest%2Fci-status.yml)](https://ci-tests.linuxserver.io/linuxserver/quassel-core/latest/index.html)

[Quassel-core](http://quassel-irc.org/) is a modern, cross-platform, distributed IRC client, meaning that one (or multiple) client(s) can attach to and detach from a central core.

This container handles the IRC connection (quasselcore) and requires a desktop client (quasselclient) to be used and configured. It is designed to be always on and will keep your identity present in IRC even when your clients cannot be online. Backlog (history) is downloaded by your client upon reconnection allowing infinite scrollback through time.

[![quassel-core](http://icons.iconarchive.com/icons/oxygen-icons.org/oxygen/256/Apps-quassel-icon.png)](http://quassel-irc.org/)

## Supported Architectures

We utilise the docker manifest for multi-platform awareness. More information is available from docker [here](https://distribution.github.io/distribution/spec/manifest-v2-2/#manifest-list) and our announcement [here](https://blog.linuxserver.io/2019/02/21/the-lsio-pipeline-project/).

Simply pulling `lscr.io/linuxserver/quassel-core:latest` should retrieve the correct image for your arch, but you can also pull specific arch images via tags.

The architectures supported by this image are:

| Architecture | Available | Tag |
| :----: | :----: | ---- |
| x86-64 | ✅ | amd64-\<version tag\> |
| arm64 | ✅ | arm64v8-\<version tag\> |
| armhf | ❌ | |

## Application Setup

Quassel wiki: [quassel](http://bugs.quassel-irc.org/projects/quassel-irc/wiki)

A great place to host a quassel instance is a VPS, such as [DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/?refcode=501c48b34b8c). For $5 a month you can have a 24/7 IRC connection and be up and running in under 55 seconds (or so they claim).

Once you have the container running, fire up a quassel desktop client and connect to your new core instance using your droplets public IP address and the port you specified in your `docker run` command *default: 4242*. Create an admin user, select SQLite as your storage backend (Quassel limitation). Setup your real name and nick, then press `Save & Connect`.

You're now connected to IRC. Let's add you to our [IRC](http://www.linuxserver.io/index.php/irc/) `#linuxserver.io` room on Freenode. Click 'File' > 'Networks' > 'Configure Networks' > 'Add' (under Networks section, not Servers) > 'Use preset' > Select 'Freenode' and then configure your identity using the tabs in the 'Network details' section. Once connected to Freenode, click `#join` and enter `#linuxserver.io`. That's it, you're done.

## Stateless usage

To use Quassel in stateless mode, where it needs to be configured through
environment arguments, run it with the `--config-from-environment` RUN_OPTS environment setting.

| Env | Usage |
| :----: | --- |
| DB_BACKEND | `SQLite` or `PostgreSQL` |
| DB_PGSQL_USERNAME | PostgreSQL User |
| DB_PGSQL_PASSWORD | PostgreSQL Password |
| DB_PGSQL_HOSTNAME | PostgreSQL Host |
| DB_PGSQL_PORT | PostgreSQL Port |
| AUTH_AUTHENTICATOR | `Database` or `LDAP` |
| AUTH_LDAP_HOSTNAME | LDAP Host |
| AUTH_LDAP_PORT | LDAP Port |
| AUTH_LDAP_BIND_DN | LDAP Bind Domain |
| AUTH_LDAP_BIND_PASSWORD | LDAP Password |
| AUTH_LDAP_FILTER | LDAP Authentication Filters |
| AUTH_LDAP_UID_ATTRIBUTE | LDAP UID |

Additionally you have RUN_OPTS that can be used to customize pathing and behavior.

| Option | Example |
| :----: | --- |
| --strict-ident | strictly bool `--strict-ident` |
| --ident-daemon | strictly bool `--ident-daemon` |
| --ident-port | `--ident-port "10113"` |
| --ident-listen | `--ident-listen "::,0.0.0.0"` |
| --ssl-cert | `--ssl-cert /config/keys/cert.crt` |
| --ssl-key | `--ssl-key /config/keys/cert.key` |
| --require-ssl | strictly bool `--require-ssl` |

Minimal example with SQLite:

```
docker create \
  --name=quassel-core \
  -e PUID=1000 \
  -e PGID=1000 \
  -e TZ=Europe/London \
  -e RUN_OPTS='--config-from-environment' \
  -e DB_BACKEND=SQLite \
  -e AUTH_AUTHENTICATOR=Database \
  -p 4242:4242 \
  -v <path to data>:/config \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  linuxserver/quassel-core
```

## Usage

To help you get started creating a container from this image you can either use docker-compose or the docker cli.

>[!NOTE]
>Unless a parameter is flaged as 'optional', it is *mandatory* and a value must be provided.

### docker-compose (recommended, [click here for more info](https://docs.linuxserver.io/general/docker-compose))

```yaml
---
services:
  quassel-core:
    image: lscr.io/linuxserver/quassel-core:latest
    container_name: quassel-core
    environment:
      - PUID=1000
      - PGID=1000
      - TZ=Etc/UTC
      - RUN_OPTS=--config-from-environment #optional
    volumes:
      - /path/to/quassel-core/data:/config
    ports:
      - 4242:4242
      - 113:10113 #optional
    restart: unless-stopped
```

### docker cli ([click here for more info](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/cli/))

```bash
docker run -d \
  --name=quassel-core \
  -e PUID=1000 \
  -e PGID=1000 \
  -e TZ=Etc/UTC \
  -e RUN_OPTS=--config-from-environment `#optional` \
  -p 4242:4242 \
  -p 113:10113 `#optional` \
  -v /path/to/quassel-core/data:/config \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  lscr.io/linuxserver/quassel-core:latest
```

## Parameters

Containers are configured using parameters passed at runtime (such as those above). These parameters are separated by a colon and indicate `<external>:<internal>` respectively. For example, `-p 8080:80` would expose port `80` from inside the container to be accessible from the host's IP on port `8080` outside the container.

| Parameter | Function |
| :----: | --- |
| `-p 4242:4242` | The port quassel-core listens for connections on. |
| `-p 10113` | Optional Ident Port |
| `-e PUID=1000` | for UserID - see below for explanation |
| `-e PGID=1000` | for GroupID - see below for explanation |
| `-e TZ=Etc/UTC` | specify a timezone to use, see this [list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones#List). |
| `-e RUN_OPTS=--config-from-environment` | Custom CLI options for Quassel |
| `-v /config` | Database and quassel-core configuration storage. |

## Environment variables from files (Docker secrets)

You can set any environment variable from a file by using a special prepend `FILE__`.

As an example:

```bash
-e FILE__MYVAR=/run/secrets/mysecretvariable
```

Will set the environment variable `MYVAR` based on the contents of the `/run/secrets/mysecretvariable` file.

## Umask for running applications

For all of our images we provide the ability to override the default umask settings for services started within the containers using the optional `-e UMASK=022` setting.
Keep in mind umask is not chmod it subtracts from permissions based on it's value it does not add. Please read up [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Umask) before asking for support.

## User / Group Identifiers

When using volumes (`-v` flags), permissions issues can arise between the host OS and the container, we avoid this issue by allowing you to specify the user `PUID` and group `PGID`.

Ensure any volume directories on the host are owned by the same user you specify and any permissions issues will vanish like magic.

In this instance `PUID=1000` and `PGID=1000`, to find yours use `id your_user` as below:

```bash
id your_user
```

Example output:

```text
uid=1000(your_user) gid=1000(your_user) groups=1000(your_user)
```

## Docker Mods

[![Docker Mods](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/yaml?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=quassel-core&query=%24.mods%5B%27quassel-core%27%5D.mod_count&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Flinuxserver%2Fdocker-mods%2Fmaster%2Fmod-list.yml)](https://mods.linuxserver.io/?mod=quassel-core "view available mods for this container.") [![Docker Universal Mods](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/yaml?color=94398d&labelColor=555555&logoColor=ffffff&style=for-the-badge&label=universal&query=%24.mods%5B%27universal%27%5D.mod_count&url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Flinuxserver%2Fdocker-mods%2Fmaster%2Fmod-list.yml)](https://mods.linuxserver.io/?mod=universal "view available universal mods.")

We publish various [Docker Mods](https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-mods) to enable additional functionality within the containers. The list of Mods available for this image (if any) as well as universal mods that can be applied to any one of our images can be accessed via the dynamic badges above.

## Support Info

* Shell access whilst the container is running:

    ```bash
    docker exec -it quassel-core /bin/bash
    ```

* To monitor the logs of the container in realtime:

    ```bash
    docker logs -f quassel-core
    ```

* Container version number:

    ```bash
    docker inspect -f '{{ index .Config.Labels "build_version" }}' quassel-core
    ```

* Image version number:

    ```bash
    docker inspect -f '{{ index .Config.Labels "build_version" }}' lscr.io/linuxserver/quassel-core:latest
    ```

## Updating Info

Most of our images are static, versioned, and require an image update and container recreation to update the app inside. With some exceptions (noted in the relevant readme.md), we do not recommend or support updating apps inside the container. Please consult the [Application Setup](#application-setup) section above to see if it is recommended for the image.

Below are the instructions for updating containers:

### Via Docker Compose

* Update images:
    * All images:

        ```bash
        docker-compose pull
        ```

    * Single image:

        ```bash
        docker-compose pull quassel-core
        ```

* Update containers:
    * All containers:

        ```bash
        docker-compose up -d
        ```

    * Single container:

        ```bash
        docker-compose up -d quassel-core
        ```

* You can also remove the old dangling images:

    ```bash
    docker image prune
    ```

### Via Docker Run

* Update the image:

    ```bash
    docker pull lscr.io/linuxserver/quassel-core:latest
    ```

* Stop the running container:

    ```bash
    docker stop quassel-core
    ```

* Delete the container:

    ```bash
    docker rm quassel-core
    ```

* Recreate a new container with the same docker run parameters as instructed above (if mapped correctly to a host folder, your `/config` folder and settings will be preserved)
* You can also remove the old dangling images:

    ```bash
    docker image prune
    ```

### Image Update Notifications - Diun (Docker Image Update Notifier)

>[!TIP]
>We recommend [Diun](https://crazymax.dev/diun/) for update notifications. Other tools that automatically update containers unattended are not recommended or supported.

## Building locally

If you want to make local modifications to these images for development purposes or just to customize the logic:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/linuxserver/docker-quassel-core.git
cd docker-quassel-core
docker build \
  --no-cache \
  --pull \
  -t lscr.io/linuxserver/quassel-core:latest .
```

The ARM variants can be built on x86_64 hardware and vice versa using `lscr.io/linuxserver/qemu-static`

```bash
docker run --rm --privileged lscr.io/linuxserver/qemu-static --reset
```

Once registered you can define the dockerfile to use with `-f Dockerfile.aarch64`.

## Versions

* **26.12.24:** - Deprecate.
* **26.08.23:** - Rebase to Alpine 3.20.
* **10.11.23:** - Rebase to Alpine 3.18.
* **03.07.23:** - Deprecate armhf. As announced [here](https://www.linuxserver.io/blog/a-farewell-to-arm-hf)
* **13.02.23:** - Rebase to Alpine 3.17, migrate to s6v3.
* **03.01.22:** - Rebase to alpine 3.15. Add new build deps and apply other fixes for 0.14.
* **07.08.21:** - Fixing incorrect database password variable operator.
* **19.12.19:** - Rebasing to alpine 3.11.
* **28.06.19:** - Rebasing to alpine 3.10.
* **23.03.19:** - Switching to new Base images, shift to arm32v7 tag.
* **20.03.19:** - Make stateless operation an option, with input from one of the quassel team.
* **26.01.19:** - Add pipeline logic and multi arch.
* **08.01.19:** - Rebase to Ubuntu Bionic and upgrade to Quassel`0.13.0` See [here.](https://quassel-irc.org/node/134).
* **30.07.18:** - Rebase to alpine:3.8 and use buildstage.
* **03.01.18:** - Deprecate cpu_core routine lack of scaling.
* **09.12.17:** - Rebase to alpine:3.7.
* **26.11.17:** - Use cpu core counting routine to speed up build time.
* **12.07.17:** - Add inspect commands to README, move to jenkins build and push.
* **27.05.17:** - Rebase to alpine:3.6.
* **13.05.17:** - Switch to git source.
* **28.12.16:** - Rebase to alpine:3.5.
* **23.11.16:** - Rebase to alpine:edge.
* **23.09.16:** - Use QT5 dependencies (thanks bauerj).
* **10.09.16:** - Add layer badges to README.
* **28.08.16:** - Add badges to README.
* **10.08.16:** - Rebase to xenial.
* **14.10.15:** - Removed the webui, turned out to be to unstable for most usecases.
* **01.09.15:** - Fixed mistake in README.
* **30.07.15:** - Switched to internal baseimage, and fixed a bug with updating the webinterface.
* **06.07.15:** - Enabled BLOWFISH encryption and added a (optional) webinterface, for the times you dont have access to your client.
